CREATE TABLE Place (_id integer primary key autoincrement, name text, lon test, lat text, description text, directionsFromPrevious text, directionsToNext text, imageName text);
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Mills Hall", "-122.18212", "37.779496", "As you entered the stately front gates of Mills College, you became part of a rich history of women's education. Founded in 1852 in Benicia, California, Mills is the oldest women's college in the West and one of the oldest in the nation. Originally known as the Young Ladies' Seminary, it was purchased by two educational missionaries, Susan and Cyrus Mills. They moved the College to our Oakland home in 1871 and built the second-oldest building on campus - Mills Hall. Today, this California Historical Landmark remains as the architectural and administrative center of the College. It was built in only nine months on the juncture of Lion and Chimes Creeks. As was the custom for women's colleges of the day, Mills Hall initially housed the entire College with the classrooms, dorms, dining hall, and library all in one building. In the lobby, you can see a marble bust of Cyrus Mills and portraits of Susan Mills and Aurelia Henry Reinhardt. The longest-serving President of Mills and a single mother, Aurelia Henry Reinhardt led the College through two world wars and the Great Depression. Among her many accomplishments, Aurelia was a delegate at the founding of the United Nations. You can also see a sampling of the several hundred teapots from Susan Mills' personal collection, given by visitors from around the globe. Many other teapots in her collection are on display in the picturesque Reinhardt Alumnae House. The President's Office (to the left of the teapot display at the end of the hallway) is occupied today by Janet L. Holmgren. President Holmgren was appointed to the presidency in 1991, coming directly from her post as vice provost at Princeton University. During her remarkable tenure as President, Mills has become a national leader in women's education and has grown in size and stature as one of the finest liberal arts colleges in the nation. President Holmgren also holds the title of Susan Mills Professor, reserved for presidents who teach. Mills students and community members meet with President Holmgren through regularly scheduled office hours.", "Start at Mills Hall: From the Office of Undergraduate Admission, walk downstairs to the living room. ", "Walk out the front door to the oval-shaped lawn, known as 'the Oval.'","mills_hall_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("El Campanil", "-122.182463", "37.778695", "In 1871, Mills students were required to walk at least one mile each day. Many students used the grassy area in front of Mills Hall as an athletic track - eight times around totaled a mile. El Campanil, built in 1904, was one of the first reinforced concrete buildings west of the Mississippi. The tower was designed by Julia Morgan, one of America's first female architects, renowned for designing California's legendary Hearst Castle. El Campanil is one of six buildings she designed for Mills, five of which still stand today. The clock tower's 10 bells are named for the 10 graces of the spirit: faith, hope, peace, joy, meekness, love, goodness, gentleness, self-control, and long-suffering.", "Walk out the front door to the oval-shaped lawn, known as 'the Oval.'", "Walk behind El Campanil","el_campanil01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("CPM", "-122.182754", "37.778522", "Behind El Campanil is the CPM building which houses the Student Health Center and the Mathematics, Computer Science, and Book Art Departments. One of Mills' many 'firsts' includes our legacy as the first women's college to offer a computer science major. Today, women's colleges provide an academic environment that encourages women to succeed in fields where they have been traditionally underrepresented, graduating women in math and sciences at one-and-a-half times the rate of coed institutions. Mills students choose from more than 40 majors for their undergraduate degrees.", "Walk behind El Campanil", "Walk down the road next to CPM (called Post Rd.), to the Education Complex","cpm_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Education Complex", "-122.183971", "37.777539", "The Education Complex houses Mills' internationally recognized School of Education. The school offers several graduate programs in education and Mills' only doctoral degree, the EdD. It also houses the Children's School, the oldest laboratory school west of the Mississippi, serving children from six months of age through the fifth grade. The Children's School is open to the public in addition to children of Mills students, faculty, and staff.", "Walk down the road next to CPM (Post Rd.), to the Education Complex", "Turn left and walk toward the two-story building with the arched windows framed in blue.","education_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Carnegie Hall", "-122.181636", "37.779057", "Not to be confused with New York's concert hall of the same name, Mills' Carnegie Hall (the building with the blue window frames) was designed by Julia Morgan as the campus library. Completed in 1906, it now houses the M Center - a one-stop shop for Academic Records, Financial Aid, and Student Accounts. ", "Turn left and walk toward the two-story building with the arched windows framed in blue.", "Turn left down Wetmore Road and walk to the Betty Irene Moore Natural Sciences Building.","mcenter_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Natural Sciences Building", "-122.180886", "37.78025", "The Betty Irene Moore Natural Sciences Building is the first on the Mills campus to meet rigorous national standards as a Leadership in energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building and attained the highest platinum rating upon its opening. Completed in fall 2007, the innovative building features an artist-designed rainwater collection system, dichroic glass skylight, and solar roof panels which provide almost 30 percent of the building's electrical needs. This dynamic center for scientific exploration combines programs in biology, chemistry, physics, and psychology, as well as biopsychology, biochemistry and molecular biology, and environmental science. Mills offers BA and BS degrees in the natural sciences.", "Turn left down Wetmore Road and walk to the Betty Irene Moore Natural Sciences Building.", "Continue along Wetmore Road toward Founders Commons, our main dining hall.","nsb_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Botanic Garden", "-122.180355","37.780714", "The William Joseph McInnes Botanic Garden is located after the Moore Natural Sciences Building on the right. Originally planted in the early 1900s, the garden includes nearly 1,000 species from around the world. The Botanic Garden serves as a learning resource for students and as a campus supplier of organic food. Gaia House is a recently completed 1,000 square-foot green facility that supports the garden as well as research activities in biology and restoration ecology.", "Continue along Wetmore Road toward Founders Commons, our main dining hall.", "Continue along Wetmore Road toward Founders Commons, our main dining hall.","botanic_garden");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Founders Commons", "-122.179325", "37.781321", "Up the hill, the newly redesigned Founders Commons serves a wide variety of food with an emphasis on fresh, organic, and local ingredients. Founders, a 'trayless' facility, diverts 97 percent of its waste to composting. Students dine sustainably while enjoying panoramic views of the Mills campus. ", "Continue along Wetmore Road toward Founders Commons, our main dining hall.", "Turn left at Post Road and continue to the Vera M. Long Building for the Social Sciences.","founders");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Vera M. Long Building", "-122.180605", "37.781569", "The Vera M. Long Building for the Social Sciences opened in 1930 as the Norman Bridge Health Center and the Nell Ford Stone Clinic. You can still see the solarium, now used as a break room and study area for students and faculty. The building reemerged in 1968 as the Mills College Childrens School, and again in 2004 as Vera Long, named for the wife of one of the cofounders of Longs Drug Stores. Two plaques at the main entrance tell the visitor of the rich history of this building. Vera Long houses our Social Sciences Departments AnthropologySociology, History, Government, and Philosophy, and Womens Studies. The Charles E. Larsen classroom on the right has been nicknamed the fishbowl. If classes are in session when you walk by, you can see one of the best things about Millsthe average class has only 16 students.", "Turn left at Post Road and continue to the Vera M.Long Building for the Social Sciences.", "Turn left at Post Road and continue to the Vera M. Long Building for the Social Sciences.","vera_long_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Art Museum and Aron Art Center", "-122.181875", "37.782988", "The Mills College Art Museum has the largest permanent collection of any liberal arts college in the West. Our collection includes over 8,000 works, such as artwork by Pablo Picasso, Imogen Cunningham, Diego Rivera, and Winslow Homer. The art museum presents frequently changing exhibitions of work from cutting-edge multimedia installations to traditional landscapes. Every spring, the museum hosts the Senior Exhibition for undergraduate art majors and the MFA Exhibition for graduate studio artists. In front of the Aron Art Center, you will see two marble Fu dogs from the Ming dynasty. They are said to face the Himalayas and bringgood luck to the campus. For history buffs, you might be interested in visiting the back of the art museum building. On the jogging trail that goes behind the building, you will see the original front entrance. It is a beautiful hidden arched doorway worth exploring. The Aron Art Center offers well-equipped studio space for ceramics, painting, drawing, photography, sculpture, and intermedia/installation. It is also home to the Danforth Lecture Hall and the Mills College Slide Library containing over 130,000 slides of 20th-century art.", "Continue down Post Road and turn right on Kapiolani Road - you are now facing the Mills College Art Museum and the Aron Art Center.", "Walk back toward the intersection of Post and Kapiolani Roads and face Warren Olney Hall on the right","art_museum_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Warren Olney Hall","-122.182305", "37.782447",  "Warren Olney Hall is one of Mills traditional first-year student residence halls. First-year women also live in Orchard Meadow Hall, across the courtyard behind Olney. There are over 500 residence hall rooms on campus 80 percent of the rooms are singles. On-campus housing is offered to all students. Almost all first-year women live on campus, and nearly 60 percent of all students continue to live on campus after their first year. Every room is naturally lit and features a closet, bed, dresser, desk, bookshelf, and chair many rooms also have personal sinks and high ceilings. There are many common areas in each residence hall, such as television rooms, laundry rooms, full kitchens, libraries, study rooms, and living rooms. Many living room areas feature antique furniture and grand pianos. ", "Walk back toward the intersection of Post and Kapiolani Roads and face warren Olney Hall on the right.", "Walk past Warren Olney Hall's front entrance and go under the walkway arch on the right continue across the courtyard (behind Olney Hall) and through the second underpass - you will arrive at the front of Orchard Meadow Hall. ","warren_olney_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Orchard Meadow Hall", "-122.18326", "37.78221", "Orchard Meadow Hall is a residential option for mostly first-year students. On the second story, you will notice porch rooms with large blue shades. (You may have already noticed some porch rooms on the third story of Olney Hall.) A porch room is a single room that opens onto a sleeping porch, shared with another single room on the other side. Some students even sleep on their porches in warm California weather! Across the road from Orchard Meadow, you will notice the President's House, also known as Spring Cottage. The President's House was the only building on this land when Susan and Cyrus Mills purchased it in 1870. It was called Spring Cottage because of a neighboring spring that provided most of the water for the College. It was remodeled and enlarged for President Aurelia Reinhardt in 1916 and became known as the President's House. It was moved to its present location in 1923 to make room for the Aron Art Center. Today, the President's House is opened to the campus community for select holidays, College gatherings, and special events such as the President's Garden Reception during Family Weekend. ", "Walk past Warren Olney Hall's front entrance and go under the walkway arch on the right; continue across the courtyard (behind Olney Hall) and through the second underpass - you will arrive at the front of Orchard Meadow Hall.", "Continue on Orchard Meadow Road and walk toward the Music Building.","orchard_meadow_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Music Building", "-122.184682", "37.781644", "The historic Music Building is one of several Spanish Colonial structures designed by architect Walter Ratcliff Jr. The Jeannik Méquet Littlefield Concert Hall - the beautifully restored centerpiece of the building - has hosted great musical talents through the decades, from John Cage to Dave Brubeck, and is home to the renowned experimental Center for Contemporary Music. Practice rooms and private lessons are available to music majors and non-music majors alike.", "Continue on Orchard Meadow Road and walk toward the Music Building.","Turn right on Richards Road and walk toward Haas Pavilion.","music_building_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Haas Pavilion",  "-122.18488", "37.782695", "The Haas Pavilion is home to our Athletics, Physical Education, and Recreation Department. We do not require students to take physical education, but many students choose to participate in these fun activities. We offer more than 30 classes each semester, including yoga, hiking, dance, and turbo-kick/kickboxing. Students also balance their academic studies by working out in our fitness center, which offers open hours for your workouts and strength training classes at scheduled times. Mills is committed to academic and athletic excellence: student-athletes have a higher average GPA than the general student body and, with a wide range of athletic experience, have competed at national championships in cross country, rowing, and swimming. ", "Turn right on Richards Road and walk toward Haas Pavilion.", "Walk to the left of Haas Pavilion, around the back, and up the stairs to the Trefethen Aquatic Center.","haas_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Trefethen Aquatic Center",  "-122.185231", "37.783265", "The Trefethen Aquatic Center offers swimming classes and open swim times for students, members of the Mills community, and friends of the College. The beautiful 10-lane outdoor pool is heated to 80 degrees year round. A spa, locker rooms, and showers are also available. Many of our lifeguards are student-workers certified through Red Cross lifeguard classes offered at Mills. ", "Walk to the left of Haas Pavilion, around the back, and up the stairs to the Trefethen Aquatic Center (pool, 4 on map).", "To the right of the pool are the Meyer Tennis Courts (5 on map), and to the left is the track and soccer field (3 on map).","pool_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Alderwood Hall", "-122.187474", "37.783554", "Alderwood Hall was originally designed by Julia Morgan as the Ming Quong School for Chinese Orphans. Alderwood currently houses the Julia Morgan School for Girls, a private all-girls middle school focusing on the arts and sciences. ", "Walk to Alderwood Hall, located on the other end of the soccer field, near the front gate. ", "Walk back toward Richards Road; you will see the Chapel. ","sample_6");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Chapel",  "-122.185773", "37.782235", "Mills' non-denominational Chapel offers interfaith and spiritual gatherings, space for faith-based student clubs and organizations, and a quiet respite for anyone who wants to sit in reflection. The Chapel also hosts the Festival of Light and Dark (a multi-faith celebration of diverse winter holidays) and Baccalaureate (a non-denominational celebration for the graduating class). It is also open for community celebrations such as weddings, commitment ceremonies, and dedications. One of the most interesting building features, perhaps inspired by the '60s era in which it was built, can only be seen from high above - it was constructed in the shape of the women's symbol! ", "Walk back toward Richards Road; you will see the Chapel. ", "Walk back down Richards Road toward the center of campus. ","chapel_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Graduate School of Business", "-122.182933", "37.7817", "The building on your left is the home of the Lorry I. Lokey Graduate School of Business and Mills MBA Program, which debuted in 2001 as the first program in the West designed to advance women in business. The facility, which achieved Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) gold certification, melds contemporary architecture with ecofriendly features such as a living green roof, energy-efficient floors, and a specially designed rainwater collection system. The Cowell Building is home to the Division of Student Life, including Career Services, Counseling and Psychological Services, Residential Life, Services for Students with Disabilities, and much more! Cowell is a great place to start if you have questions about all the exciting student life activities and resources available at Mills. ", "Walk back down Richards Road toward the center of campus.", "Turn left and walk toward the two-story building with the arched windows framed in blue.","gsb_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Rothwell Center",  "-122.181018", "37.781039", "Rothwell Center is the campus social hub, home to the Student Union, Student Activities, Student Diversity Programs, Solidarity Lounge (an empowering space for women of color and their allies), Suzie's Commuter Lounge (a place for all students, especially commuters, equipped with a pool table, couches, and cable TV), Mary Atkins Lounge (for resuming women), Parenting Lounge (a child-friendly study space), Suzanne Adams Plaza, and offices of the Crest (our yearbook) and the Campanil (our student newspaper). Adams Plaza is also a center for outdoor dining and performances. The Tea Shop, the Mail and Copy Center, the campus bookstore, and Café Suzie encircle the plaza.", "Turn left and walk toward the two-story building with the arched windows framed in blue. ", "Education building is nearby","rothwell_1");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Lisser Hall", "-122.182748", "37.780777", "Lisser Hall has a proscenium stage used for dance performances and special events.Upstairs, a small studio stage or 'black box' theater is used for productions by the Mills Players, our dramatic arts club. Legend has it that the ghost of Louis Lisser has wandered Lisser Hall, struggling with his desire to make Mills a conservatory, while Susan Mills wanted to keep it a liberal arts college.", "Cross Kapiolani Road to Lisser Hall and the F. W. Olin Library ", "Cross Kapiolani Road to Lisser Hall and the F. W. Olin Library ","lisser_01");
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("F. W. Olin Library ", "-122.182463", "37.781116",  "The F. W. Olin Library features a collection of over 235,000 volumes and more than 60 online databases. The library is home to the Heller Rare Book Room where you can view works from the College's more than 150 years of history, as well as treasures such as a copy of Shakespeare's First Folio, a Mozart manuscript, and a leaf from a Gutenberg Bible. During construction, the library architects asked students what they wanted, and they said they wanted views and independent study spaces. So they got a beautiful two-story window overlooking Leona Creek and over 280 study spaces with couches, cubbies, and tables.", "Cross Kapiolani Road to Lisser Hall and the F. W. Olin Library ", "CPM is behind campanil","library_01");	
insert into Place(name, lon, lat, description, directionsFromPrevious, directionsToNext, imageName) values ("Toyon Meadow", "-122.181884", "37.780276","Toyon Meadow, the large grassy area behind Mills Hall, is home to a variety of campus-wide events including the Native American Pow Wow, Block Party Club Fair (a celebration of campus clubs and activities), Health Fair, and academic ceremonies. You might see a class in session on the grass or a group of students studying with their laptops, thanks to the wireless connectivity all over campus. Toyon Meadow is also the site of our largest college event - Commencement. All Mills graduates cross the graduation mound, just as you are doing now, to receive their diplomas. Toyon Meadow is named for the native toyon bush growing throughout campus. ", "Turn right onto the walkway over the graduation mound, back toward Mills Hall.", "You are now facing the back of Mills Hall and one of our many beautiful fountains. This concludes your walking tour of Mills College. Thank you for taking the time to enjoy our lovely home! ","toyon_meadow_01");
CREATE TABLE Division (_id integer primary key autoincrement, name text, description text, imageName text, phone text, email text, website text, building text);
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Undergraduate Admission","Handling all your undergraduate admission needs","mills_hall_01","800.87.MILLS","admission@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/admission/undergraduate/index.php","Mills Hall");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Graduate Admission","Handling all your graduate admission needs","mills_hall_01","510.430.3309","grad-studies@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/admission/graduate/index.php","Mills Hall");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Athletics and Recreation"," College is a great place to exercise your mind, but Mills offers a wealth of opportunities that give your body a workout, too. You can become a competitive intercollegiate student-athlete, a fitness enthusiast, or just enjoy some great recreation in the beautiful Bay Area. No matter which program you choose, our incredible educators will help you to extend beyond your limits and develop a passion for putting your body into motion.","athletics_01","510.430.3376","athletics@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/campus_life/athletics_and_recreation/index.php","HAAS Pavilion");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Center for Contemporary Music","For more than 40 years, the Center for Contemporary Music (CCM) has been at the forefront of developments emphasizing experimental methods in contemporary music and its allied arts and sciences. In 1966, the San Francisco Tape Music Center moved to Mills College and became the Mills Tape Music Center, and later, the Center for Contemporary Music. Since its inception, this organization has achieved a strong international reputation as a leading center for innovation in music.  CCM maintains a variety of electronic equipment, instruments, and studios; provides instruction and technical assistance; and archives audio recordings. These are available for use by qualified graduate and undergraduate students, faculty, and staff. CCM also performs a wide variety of community services in the arts, including public concerts and lecture series, informational and technical assistance, and artist residencies.  CCM functions as an important resource center for the Bay Area's community of composers and artists and contributes to CCM's atmosphere of exciting collaboration and information exchange among students, faculty, staff, and outside professionals.","music_building_01","510.430.2191","ccm-info@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/campus_life/center_for_contemporary_music/index.php","Music Building");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Chapel","The Mills Chapel is an oasis of spirituality, set in a sunlit sanctuary amidst the eucalyptus groves. The Chapel welcomes all students and members of the Mills community, whatever your beliefs, to visit and be inspired by its tranquil beauty. Drop by anytime for quiet reflection or to talk with the director of spiritual and religious life. S/he can provide support and information regarding major faith traditions and their local places of worship, or you can find resources for religious study. ","chapel_01","510.430.2130","chapel@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/campus_life/chapel/index.php","Chapel");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Children's School","One of the many treasures of campus life at Mills is the Children's School - an innovative part of the School of Education at the College and a vital way we serve the community.  The Children''s School has a dual mission of training early childhood education professionals and providing quality education to infants, toddlers, preschoolers, and kindergarten-through-fifth-grade students. A member of the East Bay Independent Schools Association, the ChildrenÕs School is open to the children of Mills students, faculty, and staff as well as the general public.  Undergraduate students majoring or minoring in child development, as well as graduate students in education, have the unique opportunity to use the classroom for research and study under the guidance of master teachers with graduate degrees, professional credentials, and years of experience. Adults and children learn together in a unique environment that provides a rich educational experience for both. ","education_02","510.430.2118","children@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/campus_life/childrens_school/index.php","Childrens School");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Student Health Center","Many services are available to all students, whether or not they are Kaiser members, such as office visits, lab tests, and health education. Recommended screenings such as pap tests, blood pressure, HIV and other STDs, and cholesterol, are conducted as well as immunizations. Students can see the health educator for assistance with smoking cessation, nutrition, stress management, and more. ","studenthealth","510.430.2260","health@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/student_services/health_and_counseling/student_health_center.php","CPM");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Computer Science Department","In view of the pervasive roles that quantitative analysis and technology play throughout our society, a basic familiarity with the disciplines of mathematics and computer science has become an integral part of a liberal arts education. As a college for women, Mills recognizes the importance of encouraging women to study mathematics and computer science and of providing them with the high-quality instruction they need to succeed in these disciplines. Encouraging mathematical and computer literacy, along with hands-on experience with computer systems, is part of the College's continued effort to increase the analytical and technical competence of its women graduates.  Mills has an unusually distinguished record of pioneering in computer science, particularly for a liberal arts college. Between 1960 and 1974, the College progressed from a single course in computing with one professor and one student to a full-fledged computer science major. Mills was the first women's college to offer an undergraduate degree in computer science and to establish a Department of Mathematics and Computer Science.  Today, the major encompasses the core curriculum recommended by the Association for Computing Machinery. The major is designed to acquaint the student with fundamental concepts and problems in computer science and to prepare her for a career and/or graduate study in computer science and related fields. ","cs","510.430.2226","comp_sci@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/academics/undergraduate/cs/","CPM");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Ethnic Studies Department","The Ethnic Studies Department prepares Mills students for leadership and development in an increasingly multicultural, transnational, and globalized society by studying the rich history of ethnic and racial diversity in the United States from the perspectives of peoples of color. The department's curriculum promotes critical thinking and creative analysis through comparative study of the social, economic, cultural, and environmental concerns and contributions of American Indians and Alaska Natives, African Americans, Latinas/os and Chicanas/os, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders. At Mills, we examine racial dynamics as they intersect with gender, sexuality, class, and nation, and many of our courses focus on the unique experiences of women of color. Our curriculum also explores the transnational and diasporic dimensions of racial identities.","es","510.430.2080","ethnic_study@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/academics/undergraduate/eths/","Mills Hall");
INSERT INTO Division (name, description, imageName, phone, email, website, building)  values ("Psychology Department","The Psychology Department at Mills integrates scientific approaches to human behavior and its development with immediately practical issues of working with people and addressing their problems. Each student devises, in consultation with her academic advisor, a study plan for her own version of the major that is the most appropriate preparation for her particular goal. Each plan includes psychology courses along with course work in other academic areas. Qualified students may cross-register at other nearby institutions for specialized courses not taught at Mills.","nsb_03","510.430.2176","psychology@mills.edu","http://www.mills.edu/academics/undergraduate/psyc/","Natural Sciences Building");